We've now created some streams,
let's see how we can create tables.
Returning back to the workspace,
we can see that I've got Sample 2 open and I'm still in the KSQL.
Now, before we do anything else,
I want to just quickly talk about an option which KSQL provides to us.
So we're not going to quite create a table yet.
But if you recall from earlier lessons when we talked in
detail about how we can manage some of the settings of Kafka.
There was this auto offset reset option that we use in our Kafka consumers.
Well, KSQL is a Kafka consumer
and we can actually set some of these settings ourselves if we want.
For this demonstration, I want you to go ahead and set auto offset reset to earliest.
What this will say is that the Kafka consumer will
start consuming from the earliest known offset of that topic.
So we're going to go ahead and set this.
You can see that it says, "I successfully changed
the property to earliest" from the default.
If you want to get rid of the setting,
you can simply use the unset command.
I'm going to go ahead and leave it set though because we're going to be using
user data which I would like to always start from the earliest offset.
So again, creating a table is very similar to creating a stream.
The only real difference here is I'm saying create table instead of create stream.
Then, notice that I'm specifying the key here.
So I'm specifying the key as username.
Otherwise, the only difference here is that I'm using
the users' topic instead of the purchases topic.
So the users' topic has a username,
e-mail, phone number, and address and all VARCHAR fields.
You can see we specify the topic and told it that the value format will be JSON.
So let's keep that create table command and run it.
Now, we get this table created message.
So if I show tables,
we'll see I now have one table.
So let's again, do select star from users and let's limit it to five.
You can see we have some users in here.
So we've got five users and we can see their data.
Now that we've done that, let's also see how we can create a table from a query.
So we're going to create a table where we
only select users whose first name starts with a.
So you can see from users where username like a.
So a_username_users.
We're going to create this as select star from users where the username starts with a.
Let's go ahead and run that.
Let's take just a moment,
and then if we do show tables,
we should have two tables.
Now, before we go any further,
I also just want to show you something because just like when we created a stream,
we're also using a query here.
So if we do show queries,
we should see an underlying query for that username query and we do,
we can see it here, a query string,
create table as select star from users where username like a.
So again, when we go to drop this table later,
we're going to have to first terminate this query.
But now that we've done that, I also want to show you another useful command.
I'm going to go full screen and close this out.
We're simply going to describe the users table.
Now, this is a useful thing.
Say that you're working in an organization which has a number of
KSQL tables and you want to learn more about what that table looks like.
The describe command will tell you what that table looks like.
You can also use this for strings.
So I'm going to do describe purchases and you can see the information about the string.
Just a little aside and some useful information for you.
Moving along, let's go ahead and see how we can delete the table.
As I mentioned, we're going to do show queries.
We see that running query.
We're going to grab that, and then we're going to go ahead and terminate the query.
Once the query is terminated,
then we can actually delete from that table,
we can actually drop that table.
So drop table a username users.
So now, when you show tables,
we're only going to see the one.
That's all there is to it when we go ahead and create tables in KSQL.
Again, really straightforward and easy to use.